RICHARD JOHNSON: Regina King plays NYC Rep. Shirley Chisholm in new Netflix film
Skip to content
All Sections
Subscribe Now
54°F
Saturday, March 16th 2024
Daily News e-Edition
Evening e-Edition
Home Page
Close MenuSubscriber Services
Daily E-Edition
Evening E-Edition
News
Crime and Public Safety
Politics
National News
World News
Photos and Videos
Espanol
Local News
New York News
Manhattan
Bronx
Brooklyn
Queens
NYC Crime
Education
New York Politics
Sports
Sports
Yankees
Mets
Giants
Jets
Knicks
Nets
Liberty
Rangers
Islanders
Baseball
Basketball
Football
Hockey
Soccer
Obituaries
Obituaries
News Obituaries
Place an Obituary
Opinion
Opinion
Editorial Cartoons
SNYDE
Viva
Things To Do
Things To Do
Best Reviews
Fitness
Restaurants, Food and Drink
Fun and Games
Horoscopes
Advertise
Advertise with Us
Classifieds
Public Notices
Branded Content
Paid Partner Content
Advertising by Ascend
Paid Content by Brandpoint
About Us
Help Center
Contact Us
Automotive
Photo requests, reprints
Archives
TAG Disclosure
Contests
Close Menu
Sign up for email newsletters
Sign Up
Entertainment |
RICHARD JOHNSON: Regina King plays NYC Rep….
Share this:Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on X (Opens in new window)
Subscribe
Login
Account Settings
Contact Us
Log Out
Spoof a user
Sign up for email newsletters
Sign Up
Subscribe
Log In
Search
54°F
Saturday, March 16th 2024
Daily News e-Edition
Evening e-Edition
Entertainment
Things To Do
Fitness
Restaurants, Food and Drink
Viva
Horoscopes
Comics
Puzzles and Games
Trending:
Entertainment |
Subway agitator’s violent past
Entertainment |
Richard Johnson
Entertainment |
Knicks’ West Coast swing
Entertainment |
Harlem stabbing
Entertainment |
Fatal Brooklyn shooting
Entertainment |
Yankees prospects to watch
Things To DoEntertainment
SUBSCRIBER ONLY
Entertainment |
RICHARD JOHNSON: Regina King plays NYC Rep. Shirley Chisholm in new Netflix film
Share this:Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on X (Opens in new window)
Jordan Strauss/Invision/AP
Regina King plays NYC Rep. Shirley Chisholm in new Netflix film.
By Richard JohnsonPUBLISHED: March 16, 2024 at 11:10 a.m. | UPDATED: March 16, 2024 at 3:42 p.m.Shirley Chisholm, the first Black woman elected to Congress, turned down the endorsement of the Black Panthers when she ran for president in 1972.
In “Shirley” premiering on Netflix on March 22, the congresswoman from Bedford-Stuyvesant, played by Regina King, meets with Huey Newton, founder of the Black Panthers, played by Brad James.
Garrett, Jim / New York Daily NewsCongresswoman Shirley Chisolm.
James, a former U.S. Marine, said, “[Chisholm] sat down and went toe-to-toe with a person a lot of people couldn’t go toe-to-toe with. It ended up being a monumental moment.”
The scene was shot at the Beverly Hills home of Diahann Carroll, where the protagonists actually met in 1972.
The leatherneck has been busy with his wife Keshia Knight Pulliam co-hosting “Married at First Sight” on Lifetime.
The couple met on the set of “Pride and Prejudice: Atlanta” in 2019, and welcomed a son last spring.
James also was in Disney’s “Dancing Through the Snow.” “The kids were very upset when I beat up Santa,” he said.
As Chisholm once said, “You don’t make progress by standing on the sidelines, whimpering and complaining.”
****
Professional gambler R.J. Cipriani rejected Mark Wahlberg’s company when he was asked to be in “California Kid,” a documentary about the rise and fall of USC football player Owen Hanson.
“I refused to be in the docuseries without an executive producer credit or fee,” Cipriani told me.
Next thing he knew, producers were searching for photos or videos of Cipriani.
Cipriani was copied on an email the “archival producer” for Piece of Work Productions sent out that read, “There is a subplot in this story that involves RJ Cipriani. We are interested in viewing your photos of RJ for possible use in our documentary.”
Cipriani, hired by Hanson to launder millions of dollars at casino games, turned the drug dealer over to the feds.
Hanson, originally sentenced to 21 years in prison, is now set for release next year, after shaving nine years off his sentence.
“I personally reached out to Mark Wahlberg and his agent Ari Emanuel,” Cipriani said. “I let them both know I am the ‘secret sauce’ for this project and without me, this docuseries will be just a nothing-Wahlburger.”
****
Rupert Murdoch is a conservative, but he has a weakness for women from communist countries.
The Australian-born media mogul’s third wife is Wendi Deng, who was translating for him in Hong Kong.
Drew Angerer/Getty ImagesRupert Murdoch is a conservative, but he has a weakness for women from communist countries.
Now, after a marriage with Mick Jagger’s ex Jerry Hall, he is engaged to a Russian, Elena Zhukova, the mother of Dasha Zhukova, who was married to one of Russia’s most famous oligarchs, Roman Abramovich.
Abramovich lives in various countries, but never for too long. His huge yachts are in Turkey where they avoid EU sanctions. With the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the timing for this union could be problematic.
****
Savannah Jaine Radcliffe nearly didn’t make it to her performance at Berlin on E. 2nd St. on Tuesday.
A fire had broken out in her apartment building in Marble Hill at 3 a.m.
“I was asleep. There was no fire alarm. The smoke came in so quickly. It was the scariest thing I’ve ever experienced,” Radcliffe said.
Everyone escaped unharmed, and Radcliffe got her cat out too.
After the sun came up, she was helped by eight firefighters, who climbed up and retrieved her guitar.
“The show went really, really well,” she said. “I didn’t want to call it off.”
****
You probably have never heard of Nancy Haberman, who has been working for 45 years at Rubenstein, the public relations powerhouse.
Though she helped lead the fight against AIDS, launched George magazine, and publicized the New Years Eve ball drop in Times Square, she stayed behind the scenes.
At her retirement party at the Chelsea Hotel, her former husband Clyde Haberman and offspring Maggie Haberman and Zach Haberman, all journalists, gathered with dozens of reporters to raise a glass.
“I was very lucky,” Nancy said. “[Company founder] Howard [Rubenstein] hired me. He shouldn’t have. Everybody here helped me.”
Nancy had one golden rule — broken so often — never lie to a reporter. She never did.
****
R&B singer and producer Babyface — who has won 13 Grammys working with everyone from Usher and Janet Jackson to Ariana Grande and Whitney Houston — has discovered a new star.
Babyface has snapped up early work by 16-year-old painter Henri Reed, who was dubbed “Baby Basquiat” because of the influence the iconic artist has had on Reed.
Singer/Songwriter Kenneth “Babyface” Edmonds attends the Darren Dzienciol And Richie Akiva’s Annual Oscar Pre-Party at Private Residence on March 10, 2023 in Bel Air, California. (Photo by Paul Archuleta/Getty Images)
Henri is painting a car-themed piece for the New York International Auto Show  at the Javits Center opening March 29. The wunderkind will paint the piece live for ABC’s program “In the Fast Lane” that will air on March 30.
The show will exhibit celebrity rides including Elvis Presley’s 1971 Stutz Blackhawk, NBA legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar’s 1948 Packard and Princess Grace’s 1958 Mercedes-Benz.
LA-based Reed will have his first solo show April 18 at Emanuel Friedman’s Lux Contemporary, a gallery adjacent to Rolls Royce NY in Chelsea.
****
Out & About … Dionne Warwick and Tommy Hilfiger’s wife Dee Hilfiger were honored at an AmfAR benefit. Tom Ford, Kris Jenner, Peter Thomas Roth, and Leonard and Aerin Lauder led the applause … Jean-George’s vegan restaurant abcV, whose regulars include John Legend and Chrissy Teigen, got a surprise order from celebrity hairdresser Chaz Dean, who literally took home a doggie bag to his four yellow retrievers Bella, Riley, Ryver and Rayne. The restaurant will open a new outpost in the Emory Hotel on April 4 … Suzanne Somers’ husband Alan Hamel was disappointed the Oscar telecast did not include Somers in the “In Memoriam” segment. The actress started her career as  “the blonde in the Thunderbird” in “American Graffiti” along with Harrison Ford and Richard Dreyfuss.
Share this:Click to share on Facebook (Opens in new window)Click to share on X (Opens in new window)
More in Entertainment
SNYDE |
‘Boy Meets World’ stars announce documentary at 90s Con
Entertainment |
Tamron Hall talks new thriller novel ‘Watch Where They Hide’
SUBSCRIBER ONLY
Entertainment |
BROADWAY REVIEW: ‘The Notebook’ is an unexpectedly sophisticated tearjerker
Entertainment |
With Travis Kelce as a producer, Iraq veteran’s film debuts to ovation, praise
2024
March
16
Tribune Publishing
Chicago Tribune
The Morning Call
The Daily Press
The Virginian Pilot
Orlando Sentinel
Sun-Sentinel
Hartford Courant
Studio 1847
Company Info
About Us
Careers
Help Center
Manage Web Notifications
Place an ad
Media Kit
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Subscriber Services
Archives
Subscribe Now
Subscriber Terms and Conditions
Cookie Policy
Cookie Preferences
California Notice at Collection
CA Notice of Financial Incentive
Do Not Sell/Share My Personal Information
Copyright © 2024 New York Daily News
Close