date: 2024-03-16
url: https://finance.yahoo.com/news/finally-time-profits-nvidia-205400958.html
title: 50 Cities With The Largest Population In The US
In this article, we list and discuss the 50 Cities With The Largest Population In The US. If you would like to skip our detailed discussion of the population change and growth trends in the States, you can go directly to 10 Cities With The Largest Population In The US.
The United States of America is a nation characterized by its vastness in terms of land, diversity, and population. With a total land area of over 3 million square miles, 50 states, and 19,495 incorporated cities, towns, and villages, the US is the fifth largest nation in terms of area worldwide. If we look at the population, according to Census Data, the country is home to a diverse population of 331,449,281 people. 
While the largest city in the US by area is Juneau, Alaska, the city only houses a population of 31,685. On the other hand, the largest city by population houses over eight million people, and is significantly smaller than Juneau in terms of land area. In other words, similar to the rest of the world, the population distribution in the US is not even.
The Census Bureau projects that in the next 57 years, by 2080, the nation’s population is expected to increase by another 35 million and reach the figure of 370 million. However, by 2100, the United States will see a rapid population decline, losing 10 million people within twenty years. Note that mortality rates are not the only factor that affects the population of a place — in the case of the States, the population trends will be greatly influenced in the coming years by the nation’s decreased fertility rates, aging population, and growing international migration trends. 
Although already uneven, the population distribution within the US is expected to change even more in the coming years. Forecasts suggest that the suburban and rural areas will see a rise in population, while the urban centers will see a notable decline. Mostly, this is because of the US’s aging population, and economic factors like inflation.
Given this factor, while the overall US population is expected to decline by the end of this century, there will be significant population distribution shifts as well. Some US cities will experience significant population growth, while others will see a sharp decline. As of 2024, the US cities with the largest population decline include Paradise, Nevada, and Jackson, Mississippi. (See also: 15 Biggest US Cities Facing Depopulation by 2100) On the other hand, according to the most recent Census data, the cities with the largest population growth include Dallas and other Texas cities.  
Some global key players also happen to have a significant presence in the largest cities in the US. For example, Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT), Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL), and Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN). However, with the population distribution changes and overall population decline in the country, all companies may experience an eventual decline in the workforce. However, leading companies like Microsoft, Amazon, and Apple have already started investing in innovation and technology, especially AI, so they may not be as significantly impacted by the future decline in population as one would think.
Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) has made some notable investments in innovation and technology projects, such as Artificial Intelligence, to yield more efficiency and productivity. Last year in 2023, Microsoft Corporation (NASDAQ:MSFT) invested $13 billion in OpenAI, integrating AI technology into its Bing search engine, GitHub coding tools, Azure Cloud, sales and marketing software, and more.
Similarly, Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL), a world leader in the smartphone industry, is also investing hugely in generative AI technology, Tim Cook, the CEO, said in the annual shareholder meeting. He further stated in the virtual meeting that Apple Inc. (NASDAQ:AAPL) will break new grounds with generative AI and assist in productivity, problem-solving, and more.
On the other hand, Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ:AMZN) has established a $1 billion venture investment program, supporting emerging technology companies with direct investments. As the company prioritizes productivity, it has made close to a dozen investments in companies with promising automating products, such as Rightbot.  
Overall, today, the presence of giant companies in the major cities in the US contributes to the economic growth and development of the cities and the country at large. Below, we discuss the cities with the largest population in the US as of 2024.
## Our Methodology
For our list of the largest U.S. cities by population, we have sourced data from the U.S. Census Bureau, Population Division, and World Population Review (for Nashville city estimates only). Note that based on the most recent available data provided by the Census, our list is based on the 2022 estimates. For city-specific information mentioned in our list, we have sourced data from the US Census Bureau Quick Facts table. The list is in descending order, going from the 50th most populous US city to the 1st most populated one.
By the way, Insider Monkey is an investing website that uses a consensus approach to identify the best stock picks of more than 900 hedge funds investing in US stocks. The website tracks the movement of corporate insiders and hedge funds. Our top 10 consensus stock picks of hedge funds outperformed the S&P 500 stock index by more than 140 percentage points over the last 10 years (see the details here). So, if you are looking for the best stock picks to buy, you can benefit from the wisdom of hedge funds and corporate insiders.